Let's do this next approach which is gonna
be probably the more complex approach,
but it'll show some really nice ways of
working with shaders, and it'll get
us a little bit more comfortable with
putting data into shaders, and
thinking in this sort of shader way.
So what we're gonna do, instead of doing
this with geometry is on the edge of
each of these circles on the edge of the
sphere, we're gonna do it all in a shader.
We're gonna say we still wanna use
the points that we've defined here,
we want to use the icosahedron points
because we like the way that those
are placed around the sphere.
But we want to put that data
into the shader somehow.
So what we're gonna do, I'm just gonna
delete this stuff, make sure you backup
your file so that you have it on hand
in case you wanna come back to it.
Once you've backed it up,
you can delete the the circle stuff, but
we're gonna leave the icosahedron stuff.
Because we're gonna wanna
keep using these vertices.
And so the goal here is to say,
let's take these points and
let's put them in the fragment shader.
And then what we'll do in the fragment
shader is we'll say for each pixel
how far away is the current
pixel to the nearest point?
So what's the point nearest to it?
The nearest icosahedron point.
And then based on how far
away it is from that point,
we wanna create a step function just
like we did in our earlier shader,
with the noise and
with that kind of stuff.
So we're gonna start by just passing
this points array into our shader.
So we're gonna go into uniforms, we're
gonna give it a uniform called points,
and the value is called points,
because that's the name of the array.
And so when you work with an array,
so this is an array of vector threes,
so I can just double check
by console logging points,
it should be an array of vector threes.
So when you work with
an array in a shader,
we can pass in an array of vector threes.
And then in our fragment shader we
can say uniform vec3 points and
then square brackets like this.
Now the problem is with GSL,
you actually have to specify exactly
the number of elements within this array.
So I have to say something like 25 or
24 or whatever.
But this number that I'm putting in here,
it might not match the number of
the actual array that we're putting in.
We can't just put in another uniform and
then access that other uniform,
we have to do something
a little bit different.
So just to test let me
just console.log points.
So we actually have 42 points.
But sometimes depending on the detail
we might not have that many,
we might have less or may have more.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna add a define, and a define
is something that we can access
in a different way than uniforms.
And so I'll show you how this works and
I'll explain it a bit.
So we're gonna say defines, this is,
sorry, it's plural with an s, defines.
We're gonna say POINT_COUNT in capitals
because kind of like a constant, and
then we're gonna say points.length.
So what we're doing now is we're adding in
what's called a pre-processor define or
a macro or something like that.
And it's a feature of some of these C
based languages where in these languages
you can have defines, so
you could have something like this.
A common one would be define PI 3.14, and
it's basically like a constant,
you can think of it like a constant but
it's not just defining a number
it's defining any expression.
So I could define something like this,
I could say clamp or
maybe I could say something
like I don't know,
define saturate is equal to max 0.1 or
something,
you could basically put
in any expression here.
And you'll have to be careful
if you put it in a semi colon,
it might actually break but
you can put in any expression of code.
So I could say,
define foobar is 5.0 + 2.0,
and now whenever I use foobar in my code,
this is just going to get replaced
automatically before it
even runs the shader.
So during compilation it's
gonna get replaced with
whatever code I have in my define here.
And so commonly we're using it for
things like Pi, and
occasionally we'll use it for
functions that we want.
But in this case we're gonna use
it to define the point count.
So we're gonna say points, in the bracket
we're gonna say POINT_COUNT Which we
didn't define manually in our shader code,
but we did define in the three.js defines.
So three.js is going to
inject into the defines,
it's gonna inject something
that equals points.length.
And so if you run your code you should
have everything running and compiling.
So just to reiterate,
this approach is very simple,
we've just defined lots of meshes and
we've placed them around this sphere.
And we've turned them instead of being
spheres, we've turned them into circles.
And that looks pretty good until we
start to get shapes that are very large.
So in our previous approach,
the circles on sphere example,
We can see that at most angles
it looks okay actually,
it looks exactly like what we want.
But the larger these circles get,
the more we start to realize that they're
actually not really part of the sphere.
It's just as if somebody's
taken CD-ROM discs or
something and
placed it around this sphere.
And so it actually doesn't look at
all like Yayoi Kusama's spheres,
where hers are very clearly spheres
that have these circles on the surface.
It's very clearly on the surface of the
mesh and it's wrapping around as if it's
a sticker or something like that, and
that's what we're going for as opposed to
this sort of CD-ROM that just is
a flat disc that sticks out like that.
And so what we're gonna do is we're gonna
use a shader to actually draw these
circles on the surface of the mesh as
opposed to draw them as geometries.
So it's just gonna be like
we've taken this instead
of having a thing like this is
as if we've taken a sphere, and
we're just drawing the circles
with a marker right on the sphere.
So that it's actually these circles
are exactly on the surface and
they're wrapping around.
And that's basically what we're
gonna achieve with this shader.
So wee're getting there.
We've got an array called points.
We've got POINT_COUNT,
now we're finally we've defined
the POINT_COUNT in the shader here.
And now what we're gonna do is we're
going to define a distance, and
we're gonna make it really big just to
start off, it doesn't really matter,
just make it a really big number for now.
And what we're gonna do is we're
gonna go through all of the points.
And we're gonna say if the current
distance from the current point to
this point is smaller than this big
number, we're gonna use that small value.
So we're basically we're just trying
to say we have all of these points that
are the icosahedron points.
And now we wanna say what's
the distance from this pixels point to
the nearest icosahedron point.
And actually the way we're
gonna have to do that,
before we get into this is one
more little thing is we're
gonna have to pass down another
varying from the vertex shader.
So we're going to say varying vec3
vPosition, and then we're gonna
pass that down by just saying vPosition =
position, which is built in from three.js.
And then whenever we have
a varying in the vertex shader,
we have to copy the declaration
exactly into the fragment shader here.
So just make sure you copy it exactly so
that exists in both places.
And so now in our fragment
shader we have these two values.
We have the uV coordinates
which is really useful for
doing two dimensional stuff like
texturing and things like that,
but what we wanna do, is we wanna actually
get three dimensional coordinate,
the three dimensional position, the xyz
position of the pixel within this view.
And then compare it to all the other three
dimensional coordinates of the icosahedron
points.
And so we're gonna say using this
vPosition we're gonna create a for loop.
We're gonna say, for
(int i = 0); i < POINT_COUNT; i++.
And so this is how we're gonna start
to iterate through the points.
Then we're gonna say vec3, let's say
p= points and then access it just
like we would JavaScript with
the square bracket annotation.
And now we have the point, and
these are all the icosahedron points, so
we're just going through each of these.
And we're saying what's
the distance from vPosition,
which is the current position for
this current pixel, to p.
And then we're gonna say,
make distance the minimum of d and dist.
So what this line is saying,
it's saying well,
we might already have dist but
make dist the minimum of dist and d here.
So we just wanna do this whole
thing to basically get the minimum
distance from the current position
to the closest polka dot point or
the closest icosahedron point.
And if you've done that correctly, and
you output dist you should get
this kind of cool graphic.
And now we're finally there, finally we
have achieved what we want to achieve.
And just like in the earlier demo,
we can use a mask and
we can say step with some threshold dist.
And then I would put that
mask to the final color.
And again just like in the earlier demo,
so
again like in the earlier demo we can say
mask = 1- mask to invert that if you want.
And now we have these circles which
are exactly mapped onto the sphere.
So no matter if these
circles are rather large,
it's not gonna look like dics just
sitting on the surface of the sphere.
It's actually gonna look like it's
been drawn onto the material itself.
And so just as before,
let's say we just do what we were doing
earlier with fragColor = mix,
lets say color to white
depending on the mask, and
then we output with fragColor.
So we finally achieved this like
Yayoi Kusama type of sphere.
And if you wanted to
take this a step further
maybe what you'd start to do is start
to introduce some random colors.
So I'd like to use a module
called riso colors,
I made this module, it's on NPM.
I use a lot of my own modules, and
this one here you can NPM install it,
you can require it, you can bring it into
your code, and you can start to access
random riso colors which are sourced from
this Wiki here, lots of nice colors.
And this is going to work really well with
Kusama's work because her work is really
bright, and vivid, and bold.
You can also start to introduce
randomness in these circles.
Maybe using some noise, passing in
a vPosition some kind of to noise, and
then offsetting the size of
these circles based on that.